[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neon
newday.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
in this episode of the smart economy
podcast we were joined by Jacob Phillips
the co-founder of Lumbard a
non-custodial Bitcoin liquid staking
service provider in this conversation we
discussed what sparked the recent
building in Bitcoin Renaissance that
took place in 2023 and 2024 how
bitcoin's market capitalization is the
perfect solution for def's Need for
liquidity the differences in the
mentality of deploying Bitcoin as an
asset into defi versus deploying other
assets like ethereum building on top of
the Babylon staking protocol upcoming
Lumbard releases and so much more just a
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
and that the guest or host May hold
tokens discussed in any given episode
you can check out a full disclaimer over
at
www.newsday.com also if you enjoyed this
episode please rate and review it on
your favorite podcasting platform and
share it with your friends and family
every rating review like and comment
helps us reach more people and bring you
more of your favorite guests with all
that said I really enjoyed speaking with
Jacob and I hope you enjoy the
conversation too hey everyone welcome to
the smart economy podcast today we're
joined by Jacob Phillips the co-founder
of Lumbard a liquid Bitcoin staking
protocol how are we doing today Jacob
doing great thanks uh ton for having me
on yeah I'm really excited um you have a
fantastic background I was we were
talking about that before yeah I didn't
realize it was this good originally I
was going to do this for my room uh but
you know I I switched it up because of
the lighting and this turned out all
right nice um so before we kind of like
jump into the what's your background who
are you what's Lombard I kind of want to
jump in the deep end with kind of like a
broader question and I'm really happy to
have this conversation with you because
I just can't wait to hear more about how
we're increasing the opportunities for
for defy and Bitcoin so um maybe from
your perspective why did you want to
start building at Lumbard what was
holding Bitcoin back from truly
participating in the def landscape since
D5 became a thing during uh the food
token summer of 2020 yeah this is a good
question so like just super super quick
background most of my defi experience
started in in food foodcoin summer right
Bitcoin or defi summer 2020 I was at
Poly chain at the time uh we were
investing the coolest new stuff being
built on chain there was always this
idea that Bitcoin was going to be
involved in it people didn't really know
how you know we were still building on
root stock and different sort of side
chains at that time uh invested in a
protocol at Poly chain called badgerow
which was like sort of the first eth
Native um attempt to bring Bitcoin into
like the blue chip D5 protocols that
existed didn't really work out you know
Bitcoin wbtc had a little bit of a
Heyday but then it you know kind of
sputtered a little bit never really grew
to the amount that people thought it
would fast forward you know a whole
cycle later maybe a cycle and a half
later depending on how you uh how you
count it and this is like beginning of
this year and you started to see Bitcoin
def you know get a new source of
momentum and it's actually interesting
kind of talking about this in retrospect
with some other Bitcoin D5 Founders the
my sort of leading thesis on it is that
you know historically it's been really
easy to get yield on bitcoin uh through
blockfi and you know centralized lenders
and whatnot only after the collapse of
those did it then was there this Market
need for some new you know uh new form
of uh economy for Bitcoin right so this
is where Bitcoin defi kind of found its
place came in and filled the niche and I
mean huge huge win for Defi and I think
um perfect timing and I think what's
been really cool was you know I had been
spending a lot of time in the E
ecosystem it's funny right before this
we were having this discussion about how
you know I think both of us are sort of
re falling in love with Bitcoin and
everything that you know the ecosystem
stood for and a lot of the reason that I
sort of at one point was spending almost
all of my time in the eth ecosystem and
you know alt L1 defi ecosystems because
like that's where the Innovation was
happening that's where the cool stuff
was happening it it you know Bitcoin was
kind of just not doing anything there
was you know um and and you know
attempts to bring Bitcoin into these
ecosystems were sort of failing but I
think the coolest thing that happened in
the beginning of the year was you
started to see a fundamental shift in
the Bitcoin Community for the first time
ever you saw core devs uh adopt like you
know supporting further expressivity at
at the Bitcoin base layer that's that's
super cool you see some of the biggest
Bitcoin Maxis in the space turn and now
get a excited about Bitcoin defi launch
launch um Venture funds focused on
investing in this and you saw you know
momentum in the space that looked very
early Bitcoin or sorry early defi summer
2020 esque like call it January through
March when Unis Swap and a started
ripping I mean at this point it's like
you put the three of those together and
it kind of feels like we're at the point
of no return for Bitcoin dag and sure
enough there was a fourth Catalyst the
introduction of a protocol like Babylon
that for the first time in it ever
enabled native Bitcoin staking that I
think takes this to the next level um
sort of an exogenous Catalyst to ignite
the ecosystem um something that was
missing when wbtc had its first
runaround in defi summer but is present
now to to sort of proliferate all these
Bitcoin rappers and um and Bitcoin
liquid staking tokens throughout Dy so
uh it was sort of The Perfect Storm I
think to make uh what was always an
obvious thesis finally come true so like
what was it then that that kicked all
this off this year because it seems like
nobody was excited about building on
bitcoin and then like Casey romer's
protocol comes out and we can start
trading like shitcoins on top of Bitcoin
and then runs pops off and I feel like
that was kind of like the Genesis for
for bringing back in the excitement into
building on bitcoin but like you
mentioned rootstock these guys have been
building since 2016 you mentioned all
these ogs and these Maxis they've been
here forever like it wasn't even block
fire Celsius and and getting Yi on
lending your Bitcoin that got everybody
excited I I I can't even say that it was
like bit VM that really did it so like
from your perspective what was like the
thing that kicked off all the interest
and finally Amalgamated all these like
different areas that allowed us to build
and really kind of like sparked the
interest this year yeah it's a great
question uh the only thing I can come up
with is that it's it's a Snowball Effect
right a combination a number of things
it wasn't just the tech it wasn't just
you know a culture shift in the Bitcoin
Community it wasn't just users now with
no place to earn their you know earn um
earn money on their Bitcoin it was the
combination of all of those I think kind
of at the same time and um you know it's
it's actually interesting you could do
this for so many crypto phenomena where
you or rather uh you know Cycles or
whatever where you look back and it's
like why did Def summer kick off at the
beginning of 2020 and it's it's there's
never something specific you can
pinpoint but what I will say is people
had building been building Tech in the
Bitcoin Community for Bitcoin D5 for
quite some time having you know know
varying degrees of traction and you know
as much as I was sort of giving
rootstock a little bit of a hard time
there for you know having built
unsuccessfully for quite some time to be
completely honest the model that they
put forth from a technical perspective
was not that crazy different from what
you see today in some of the leading
protocols it's just a difference of one
of them got to critical mass or it looks
like some of these Protocols are going
to get to critical mass and others
didn't so the big the big difference
between this time around and the couple
times before when Bitcoin T tried to is
now there's finally users why are there
users I mean I think it's because now
there's uh a yield Source on bitcoin
that people are excited about and you
know you really couldn't have Bitcoin
defi uh in the state that it you know is
today without I think uh maturity of
existing defi ecosystems plus uh you
know call it sophistication and bridging
protocols to the point where you know
this is actually something that we can
build you know in in 2021 when we were
when people were first sort of like
getting excited about Bitcoin Defi and
trying to bring it into the et5
ecosystem I think those things just
weren't quite in place yet you know defi
was still really very Niche at that
point in time um away from the kind of
outside of the interest of big Bitcoin
holders um certainly the smart contracts
were not mature enough yet to the point
where you could uh reliably deploy and
then you know bridging was still sort of
an uh I don't know um a work in progress
so to speak outside of like centralized
rappers but you know and and maybe the
one other thing is like this is what I
keep harping on when we discuss like why
why is now the right time I think that
you know we've had a lot of momentum
already but I think you know maybe I'm a
little bit biased because Lombard's
building this Bitcoin liquid staking
token built on Babylon but another way
to think about this is like look at what
happened in the Igan ecosystem where
everybody had known E Liquid staking
tokens reaking tokens um LP tokens is
collateral we've been talking about
these things since like 2018 or 2019
like Dan Dan eler has this post on
superfluid collateral that I think was
in like 207 uh sorry 2019 and you know
it took until basically 2023 2024 for
this to come to fruition and the
question is like why did that happen
well you know uh for the longest time
people built uh you know uh protocols
upon naked eth and this was this was
just fine there was never a cat enough
of the Catalyst users in protocols to
sort of take on extra risk and do extra
Integrations to get an asset that was
going to not really move the needle for
users now this like LST or these lrts
are earning all kinds of points and
tokens on top of that which makes it
this you know super um yeah this like
super boosted collateral effectively
relative to the naked e so now there's
this incentive for people now it's like
um you know using uh an lstd or LRT in a
protocol is materially better than using
naked the same thing I think is
happening in the Bitcoin Community where
now having your Bitcoin in your cold
wallet is materially worse than doing
something simple like staking it on
chain because of you know the potential
for Babylon yield and the you know the
Babylon point system they have going on
similarly then like you know using a
liquid staking token and defi is
materially better we've created these
new incentive systems that I think are
driving the whole flywheel here and just
really quickly the majority of our
audience is pretty tuned in they're
they're pretty Crypton native but like
yeah I always try to hope that my mom
listens to this and maybe she picks
something new up so can you just eli5
real quick what an LST is and what an
LRT is exactly yes um sure thing so
there's this there's this concept of of
staking within proof of stake systems
that basically says like I am going to
be one of the judges of the protocol I
will put up some stake if I act
dishonestly not according to the
protocol you can slash my stake uh and
to do that you know for putting up that
stake and participating in the protocol
I will then earn some reward so then you
know D5 Maxis came around and they said
hey um it's it's you know such a shame
that all of our all of our stake is
going to be locked up in the core now we
can't now there's no liquidity for the
def ecosystem um so what if uh what if
we created a receipt token basically
like you can go State your collateral
get a representation a liquid
representation of that collateral that
you can then go take without defi so
basically says like hey a liquid staking
token is a is a token that is a liquid
representation of that staked asset it
says hey there's some asset Stak that
are locked up um there's some properties
you know that Define this asset um I can
then use this collateral within any sort
of permissionless protocol um as if it
were the the underlying collateral and
obviously in theory this liquid staking
token is a little bit of a different
asset class than the the the sort of
naked eth or naked BTC but um you know
because of the sort of perceived Risk by
the market of um of slashing or of uh a
lack of liquidity created by the staking
protocol um the two actually trade
basically hand in hand and now I'd
actually argue that like St eth and eth
are basically interchangeable in the eth
ecosystem um you know to a degree um so
then the next step up is like okay
imagine you have um staked ether Bitcoin
you now have a liquid staking token that
you use without defi that's
representative of that staked ether
Bitcoin and now what if you could
Bas layer Bitcoin um Bitcoin staking
then a step up from that is like okay
what if I could restake that collateral
to now do something else to secure some
other chain or provide some other
insurance in this case you know those I
guess those Protocols are all taking on
the risk they know that there is risk of
that underlying collateral being slashed
but they say that's an acceptable risk
I'm okay taking that it's fully
transparent I can see exactly what
validators you're delegating to so I'll
take on that risk and then I'll allow
you to use this asset as collateral to
you know do something else within the
ecosystem so it's kind of just you know
liquid staking tokens are one layer of
staking reaking tokens are two layers of
staking awesome that's a heck of an
intro into the Pod um fantastic
responses uh let's just take like two
steps back so that we can paint some
more context for yeah uh some folks can
understand a little bit about you maybe
we can start with uh what was when was
the first time you heard about Bitcoin
or maybe even ethereum um and did it
click for you right away or did it take
a little bit of time for you to have an
ahaa moment it definitely took me a
little bit of time so I heard about
Bitcoin back in high school buddy of
mine uh would joke about it on the way
to school and I went around telling
everybody we you know you should be
buying Bitcoin but at that time it was
like it was hyper volatile I mean it was
just like a get-rich quick scheme and I
think I was just you know I was uh uh
trying to be a little bit provocative
I'd say because I never actually bought
any you know that was kind of the thing
at that point it was like oh man am I
going to spend all my Christmas money
trying to buy a Bitcoin that's going to
go to zero in a little bit in retrospect
was like obviously silly that I that I
didn't uh you know take a leap into it
mostly because it would have been cool
to have just been involved in the
ecosystem you you put some you get some
skin in the game and I think I would
have been paying attention to it so much
closer so then step two is I go to uh
College my freshman year roommate is a
um is an Ico investor and thinks he
thinks he just understands the market
you know when an Ico pumps that was
because of his intelligent I'm just like
God you driving to me nuts I'm trying to
become like a a you know a stock analyst
at this point um I'm like learning to do
DCFS and he's sitting here talking about
icos I'm like get out of here this is
this is all vaporware and only until uh
like my junior or senior year I'd
already done a couple internships in
banking um had already gone down the
whole traditional Finance route and now
like had all this free time on my hands
that I started researching crypto
originally only because I knew VC's
wanted wanted to hear it kind of like I
knew it was cool I knew there was
something going on I sort of just
researched enough to be would to make a
good pitch but then I you know funny
enough uh good old good old Cleveland
Ohio where I went to school was
launching like a a crypto um initiative
well they called it Blockland this was
their attempt it was sort of this um it
was run by this guy Bernie Marino who
actually just got elected a senator
which is pretty cool yeah yeah uh so you
know that that sort of in conjunction
with that movement there was a there was
a small startup accelerator there that
traditionally was investing in like SAS
companies which was what I I just wanted
to get into traditional VC uh so I was
like you know interviewing there I
pitched a crypto company they were like
hey that's cool um we'll hire you came
in the you know whatever the first day
was and they're like hey by the way we
didn't tell you this but we're launching
a blockchain fund and you're going to
work on that and I'm like God damn it
it's so but you know long story short
they forced me to research it a little
bit and I got hooked from there and uh
you know the rest was history what what
better place to be you know diving into
if I was in traditional Finance I'd
probably still be you know working for
three or four five different layers of
people something like that that and uh
yeah uh crypto I mean I think I went
from like not knowing anything about
crypto than to working at one of the
best funds in the space in like 11 or 12
months so um yeah pretty cool
opportunity for sure yeah that's awesome
and shout out to uh Bernie Marino he he
uh unsat and incumbent um largely with
the help of of packs like uh I forget
the the name of the current pack but
also with uh help from folks like stand
with crypto I got to go out to DC in
December to chat with Colorado
legislators about Pro crypto legislation
nice and it feels like we won this
election regardless if you're left or
right it feels like crypto won this
election so that's really cool that your
Genesis um kind of has some early roots
with uh with a forthcoming pro pro
crypto um Senator yeah so so like this
is really cool you you go to school you
want to go into the traditional
institutional realm or investment realm
um I myself two years ago went on a
University tour and got to speak with
different blockchain Club around the US
and I was going to be amazed if any of
the students I spoke with still
graduated as opposed to dropping out and
working on the projects that they're
working on so maybe you can share a
little bit about your time at polychain
and how you went from kind of being on
the the the VC analysis side into kind
of um migrating into product building um
and maybe this is uh a little bit of
your experience when you went to
Perennial Labs or maybe you can just
kind of talk about how the the idea for
Lumbard kind of was something that you
you couldn't stop thinking about yeah
for sure so so I guess here's here's the
basic story is when I knew I wanted so
it's like late late 2018 I know I want
to go all in in crypto and the only way
I could think that would be you know
reasonable for me to get into the space
would be to just learn everything I
possibly could uh and and I figured the
best way to do that would be to work at
a VC fund where you get to kind of see
everything cool that's happening and so
I went and worked at like uh VC fund
that wasn't investing in very
interesting stuff and then I leveled
myself up to one that wasn't investing
in interesting stuff and then ultimately
I like use those two experiences to like
step up to um to the poly chain of
course and you know the biggest thing
there was like I just had to get started
somewhere you know the thing about VC is
if you want to be you know the best
funds see the best deals it's kind of
like whatever fund you're working at you
see the deals they're seeing so if
you're not working at a good fund you're
not seeing the best stuff you're not
seeing the coolest things you're not
like training your mind to think a
certain way you know it's like all of VC
is a kind of a game of pattern matching
of like what is a good team good founder
good protocol look like and if you're
seeing the wrong stuff you're going to
train your brain the wrong way so anyway
I ended up you know getting into poly
chain and man um I mean that was a
pretty crazy time that was like this is
this is like I started early 2020 so
late 2019 Bitcoin starts ripping the
bull the next bull market is just you
know um on the cusp uh defi starts
ripping and I was there with you know uh
what what were I mean it was a group of
like eight or nine of the smartest
crypto researchers in the space um just
a crazy environment to uh be learning in
we were in office for three months
before Co hit which was like an
incredible place to start and then um
from there I mean we had like a really
tight-knit team and I mean it was cool I
mean paully Chan when I first came in
there it was like every deal we were
doing we were spending two weeks
researching on it everybody on the team
was reading the white paper we were like
debating this back and forth on multiple
like hourlong calls I mean those were
the Glory Days like that was the perfect
learning environment I'm almost a little
bit I don't know like I wonder what it
would be like if I was restarting that
process now because the pace of deals
like there's so much more Capital the
pace of deals the cost of deals the
amount of diligence people do I think
has like you know changed quite
significantly from where it was back
then and honestly I think that was kind
of what why I ended up you know leaving
way down the road was it just you know
we went from like being really really
great researchers than to you know about
to invest in like nft exchanges on Tera
and like you know with like 24 hours to
decide it was just a very different ball
game bull market crypto investing is
very different than bare Market but
anyway you know I mean I think the other
thing I thought was like I had
originally thought that uh investors
were the smartest people in the space um
and I do still think that there are a
lot of really really intelligent ones
and I've had the privilege of working
with or working alongside a lot of them
but uh I also think you know those guys
see a lot of things and their job is to
kind of be like the the big thinker the
Visionary at the end of the day like the
smartest guys in the space are the guys
making the highest conviction bets you
know it's not just like oh I'm going to
invest in infrastructure because crypto
is going to go up it's like I'm GNA
invest in some application within some
ecosystem that does this and I'm going
to invest all of my time and energy into
it and all my financial Capital like
it's literally the I mean no one goes
all into a bat harder than a uh than a
than a founder or a builder so I I knew
I wanted to do something Defi and it
just so happened that there was a great
group of guys who were U really good
friends of poly chain who were launching
kind of a defi Studio ended up joining
them for any labs um this was my first
fora into uh into building effectively
at fence funds everybody loves to sit
around and think like you know we think
about these protocols so often we think
about token launches how to build Dows
how to take certain things to Market we
know what it takes to make a good
project but turns out actually doing
that is a whole hell of a lot harder so
even you know man my first I remember my
first like three to six months there I
was it was like drinking from a fire
hose you know making a ton of mistakes
but learning from them I mean it was a
great experience you kind of just have
to have to go do it and that's why you
know to some degree I'm always like a
little bit skeptical I think of uh of
VCS who went to the building world
because I know it takes him a little bit
to ramp up at VCS you only really do
high value work there's a there's a
legal guy in an Ops guy and someone uh
do all the paperwork and stuff you kind
of just have to think and at a startup
it's like you are all of those guys so I
hope you're ready uh and yeah and you
know I spent two years building a pers
protocol on Arbitron um perss is one of
the most exciting and one of the most
competitive spaces um you know I worked
with a really great group there um it
was it was cool to just watch the whole
ecosystem grow but you know at some
point I mean a lot of things came
together all at once really quickly and
it was it was sort of Lombard became an
opportunity I couldn't pass up on it was
uh it was like you know maybe the best
Market opportunity I'd seen coming my
way it was an area that we had like a
really distinct competitive advantage in
in that you know VCS are kind of like
ecosystem Builders to a degree like I
kind of knew what projects would be
great in the ecosystem I was good at
just sort of pitching D broadly uh and
and you know as where with perennial I
think we were focusing very narrowly on
a subset of users in defi you know
Lombard's kind of core mission is just
to onboard people to onchain finance
generally so it's like my first goal is
to pitch you the most primitive form of
dii which is just taking your Bitcoin
out of your cold wallet and staking it
and then from there I'm sort of
upselling you into all the amazing
things that you know the smartest people
in crypto have built within the
decentralized finance World in these
different ecosystems so it's been a
great great change of pace maybe the
last thing is um you sort of been
working with some of my old polychain
colleagues on this so it's been a an
opportunity to work with you know some
of my best friends in the space so hard
to hard to pass up yeah so we're kind of
uh we're like the parachutes launched
we're kind of Landing uh to the ground
and and we're about to start digging
into Lumbard and what you're working on
but you and I share kind of a similar
trajectory where we went YOLO crypto as
a career in 20 late 2018 I remember it
was the absolute bottom of the bare
Market when I pulled the ripcord on my
previous career in October 2018 and went
full-time into crypto my friends my
family myself I I didn't know what I was
doing um and I thought that it was kind
of insane that I was making the leap
then but um in bare markets is is when
we build and is really really when we
kind of like amalgamate and and test
what we're made of right so I'm kind of
curious to hear how you landed on
bitcoin as the network to be building on
because bitcoin's the OG it survives
multiple bull bear Cycles um but like we
were saying earlier at the beginning of
this conversation even be before we hit
record there was kind of like an initial
love and then it faded away so maybe
from your perspective without talking
about like why building on bitcoin is so
great maybe we can just like from from a
highle perspective share from your
insights why Bitcoin is the network that
is destined to succeed whether there is
um broadscale support from the state or
not like what makes Bitcoin the thing
that that is worth building on today the
reason I originally got into Bitcoin or
crypto in the first place was because it
was kind of I it seemed like it was
already past the point of no return in
in 2018 you know when I was looking at
this I'm like I I can't remember when it
was exactly like 2014 2015 or something
like that and then again and you know
freshman year college or whatever at
that point there was still so much
uncertainty you know it's like Bitcoin
in the early days to an outsider who
wasn't like fully in on the fundamental
thesis looks like a bit of a meme coin
you know um however it's like if if the
meme catches on it becomes this like
incredible um you know public good that
no one could recreate right like Bitcoin
at the end of the day was sort of this
magical thing that happened uh It could
only haveen happened in sort of the way
it did if somebody tried to recreate
this it would just wouldn't work the
same and so um you know even when I was
first getting into crypto it was sort of
already set and done a little bit you
know like I thought Bitcoin had already
kind of locked in or not so much that it
was said and done more like it was past
the point of no return all the big VCS
were already investing in it all the big
Banks were already doing trials with it
all the you know everybody in um in
Silicon Valley was was playing around
with it to some degree and it's one of
those things where it was like you
Bitcoin is a little bit of a meme like
the the thesis and the ideals has
already caught on to the point where
it's hard to imagine anything stopping
it even if there was like a technical
malfunction or some somewhere it broke
down people would just restart it at
this point Bitcoin is not a thing or or
a technology it's like an idea and so I
think I mean that's just insanely
powerful and so now fast forward many
years later it's like crazy to see each
cycle what you know everything that
evolves I mean at that point it was like
you know the 2017 18 cycle was cool just
to see that people were doing love
trials with it nothing material now in
this cycle it's like black rock is is
like launching stuff in ethereum it's
it's hard to even fathom How Far We've
Come yeah and now politicians are
talking about putting on the nation's
balance sheet like these are just these
are wild things yeah um and and yeah
maybe just to tie this in real quickly
to Lombard I mean the real story of how
I sort of got back to bitcoin was I
spent a lot of time looking at what I
perceive to be the cool stuff when
you're at a VC you're always thinking
about what's next not what was because
you can't make any money off of what was
you always have to look forward and uh
and now it's it's like a little bit
different now it's all about solving
solving user problems and I think like
you know one of the most actionable
problems in the crypto space right now
for better for worse is the need for
more liquidity in in defi so it's like
there's this asset that is you know uh I
don't know twice as big as the rest of
the market or something like that right
it's like a couple trillion dollars in
market cap that's entirely left out of
the ecosystem if you could Bridge this
over to the you know the defi ecosystems
we built imagine how much new liquidity
you could bring protocols and chains um
and and applications this this is the
missing opportunity um that you know I
think people are just now starting to
capture and I mean I think this was the
big difference I've I've like invested
in a lot of protocols at uh at Poly
chain and you know had the opportunity
to kind of build on a couple when I was
at um equilibria the studio building
perennial um but you know uh all along I
think well only so many of them are
solving with a really really actionable
need you know something that's like such
a paino that people will um people adopt
this here and now rather than kind of
letting it letting it flutter or
whatever you know I think there's like a
lot of incremental Innovation that just
don't move things forward but the need
for new liquidity is something that is
pressing to the life of every protocol
and new chain app chain whatever that
people are building so I think it's
resonated quite quite nicely it takes me
a very short amount of time to explain
why why Lumbard is interesting to people
as where you know past um past things I
think have taken a lot longer so I think
for like crypto natives such as
ourselves and maybe the majority of our
audience it's it's really easy to
understand why somebody would want to
stake Bitcoin and be able to receive a
yield on it but if you go back to a
conversation that sailor and safety n
moose had maybe about two months ago
sailor caught a lot of flak for saying
that you can earn yield on your Bitcoin
by loaning loaning it or lending it out
to Banks so what's like the bridge
that's missing or the gap or the Divide
between the kind of like web to
traditional folks like sailor who are
trying to say that there there are ways
to earn yield uh along with like the
Maxis who will never let go of their
Bitcoin how does Lumbard kind of like
serve as a perfect kind of bridge
between those two and really open up the
world of opportunities for for
traditional and for crypto native alike
long story short I think s come around
it is it is true you can always earn
yield on anything if you're willing to
take on some risk the difference is
those risks are just a little bit
different you know the rist Sailor is
describing is like I trust someone I
trust some institution those are things
that people are traditionally
comfortable with you know it feels good
to know that there's you know some big
bank with a big brand name that probably
doesn't screw me over uh but then you
end up with money and blockfi and FTX
and something like this I was saying
this on a on a panel at Devcon like it
seems like for better you know it with
time centralized institutions will
always let you down in some in some way
you know so imagine trying to do that
same form of financial activity that you
know saor was talking about loaning to a
bank or some Market maker or some
institution What If instead of having to
it's like the there's some inherent
trust that that is built upon you know
legal contract and you know maybe some
um some brand recognition or something
like that the fact that we now have
technology to replace all of that with
with code and math is you know is
undeniably better than anything that he
you know the the financial systems built
on right now and I think you know it's a
little bit scary to trust I think people
aren't used to trusting uh onchain code
and Mathematics but once they come
around to it it's like you know it's
going to be silly that we ever just
trusted people with our money in the way
that we did so you know defi is bringing
forth these sort of foundational trust
Primitives that we've never had before
that I think are just totally going to
change the game so it's kind of the same
thing I mean there's ways to earn yield
on your Bitcoin you take on some R I
don't necessarily even think that like
those are those are a bad thing one of
the coolest Parts about the Bitcoin defi
space I think is that um Bitcoin defi
exposes the whole spectrum of of trust
and risk so uh lbtc I hope that lbtc is
Lent on centralized institutions and
defi platforms and everywhere in between
you know because it's like users who
need to be able to have optionality to
to make this I think over time users are
going to gradually you know they're
going to gravitate to battle tested
protocols like human Swap and a uh
because these are just fundamentally
better venues for doing the type of
financial activity uh that they're
trying to do relative to these
centralized institutions but you know
there's value in each of those for
different types of Market participants
so I don't think it's necessarily uh
either you know it's it's not one or the
other it's it's you know some
combination of both so maybe this is a
good segue into giving your elevator
pitch for what Lumbard is and then also
maybe talking about how as a
non-custodial solution lbtc works with
other protocols um I'd also love to hear
you delve into Babalon a little bit and
share how that empowers uh the work that
you're doing at at Lombard and how it
also kind of um serves as as a layer for
lbtc sure perfect uh so Lombard is a
Bitcoin liquid staking protocol we the
largest Bitcoin liquid staking protocol
in fact last night we just hit a billion
dollars in tvl which is pretty exciting
we um uh yeah the way Lombard works is
users deposit Bitcoin native Bitcoin
into the Lombard protocol the Lombard
protocol Stakes it into Babylon directly
on bitcoin L1 and then you know Waits a
couple confirmations you can kind of
think of Lombard a little bit as this
bridge um that allows you to then mint
lbtc a liquid representation of that
Stak Bitcoin on any of a number of
networks right now um just eth man
in about uh two or 3 weeks she'll be
able to do this across a number of
chains um and so lbtc is representative
of this Bitcoin statement Babylon so
what does that mean uh Babylon started
off as this timestamping protocol based
on this uh based on this sort of um this
time locking protocol from uh I can't
remember the name of it off the top of
my head but there was like some
foundation for this technology back in
2016 or 2017 that they then basically
realized that if you you know using very
sort of simple logic within Bitcoin
script you could create a protocol that
makes it such that a user in this case a
finality provider can sign um updates to
blocks basically saying like hey I saw
this block on a chain it is now final uh
and if I signed with the same signature
updates that said two different blocks
the same block height or or final then
you could slash me and if you think
about this this is exactly what a
slashing protocol is basically doing if
I was building this at the protocol
layer you're basically saying like hey
if you double sign if you do something
malicious that's not in accordance with
the protocol in this case Babylon sort
of isolates this one very narrow but
very very important form of risk within
within these protocols you can then get
slash so it's kind of the first time
you've ever been able to do this
directly at at like directly on bitcoin
people build mechanisms on top that rely
on multis and stuff with babon you can
do this directly from your self- custody
wallet it's kind of it's pretty um it's
pretty wild Tech and I think it was
exactly what was needed to you know
create uh enough momentum within the
Bitcoin Community I mean babylon's God
yeah aons had 16 blocks worth of a uh
worth of time uh worth of a window where
you could deposit into their protocol
and I think they have like you know
couple billion dollars in tvl now uh
they're just about to open cap three
here Stone so it's it's pretty cool and
I think you know the magic of this is
like okay now users can State their
Bitcoin this is like step one of a
user's journey into onchain finance my
step step zero is like I have Bitcoin it
sits in my uh you know it sits in my
cold wallet it doesn't do anything this
is where most of the Bitcoin is Step One
is like just do something with it find
like the lowest risk lowest yield form
of it um and just kind of test this
stuff out once you've got your Bitcoin
out of the cold wallet into some form of
onchain Finance the upsell from hey
you're doing you're staking to Babylon
to hey there's a fundamentally better
way to stake called liquid staking and
oh by the way here's a protocol that's
like like Unis swap or a that's had like
a 10 billion bounty on it for 3 or four
years if anybody could hack it that
hasn't been hacked I mean this is like
arguably safer than some banks at this
point you know um so to be able to like
stack yield on top of that I think is
just that um the start of this so I mean
Lombard launched um I think um early or
late August um I'm losing my time
Horizons now but um we we launched with
um some big blue chip um Partners pendal
Moro deer boox um I've been working
really closely with The Ether five folks
um there's a protocol Veda that does um
automa management that has been awesome
um and you know we've expanded to a
number of other places since then and
you know now looking to go cross chain
soon the I guess the real pitch for
Lombard is um anything you can do with
your Bitcoin you can do it better with
lbtc and Lombard fundamentally is is
about onboarding net new users to
onchain finance so we sort of think of
as a little bit as like a layer between
D5 protocols and some of the biggest you
know holders of of any type of capital
but uh but of crypto in the world so
that's phenomenal I think it the hunger
for for getting yield on your Bitcoin is
there uh blocks by Celsius like people
were willing to give up Bitcoin users
were willing to give up their custody to
a third party in order to get like 68%
so clearly there was some demand there
um but I'm wondering uh and maybe this
is kind of like a chicken or the egg
question um are you noticing that people
are hungry for yield and they're just
willing to go anywhere be it custodial
or not non-custodial or or maybe it's an
even an Andor are you noticing that
because there was this issue with bit
Global and Justin sun and procuring the
C the custodial solution for wrapped
Bitcoin wbtc are is it a combination of
either of these things that is kind of
like lending Credence to Lumbard being
able to get $1 billion in tvl or is it
just kind of like a natural market shift
this is a great question and and very
similar to another question I get quite
frequently which is hey you know Bitcoin
is still this big group of Bitcoin Maxis
they don't want anything to do with with
um defi or ethereum or any these other
ecosystems and the honest truth is like
Bitcoin Community is so big that there
are different pockets of people who are
comfortable with different things but
what I will say is um every single
conversation we have with any Bitcoin
holder of material size regardless of
the type starts at security
um people think about Bitcoin
differently than they think about their
eth my eth I have no problem deploying
to eth defi protocols my Bitcoin is kind
of something different you know it's
like it's like your savings account
versus your checking you know I'll swipe
my debit card all day or whatever but
the second you have to dip into savings
it gets a little bit scary now I think
over time this is going to change you
know there's no real reason why you
should view your Bitcoin differently
then you should view your e or some some
other other asset maybe some Bitcoin
holders will disagree with me but at the
end of the day it's an asset you can put
it to work if you want um assuming that
the risks are the same I think you
should view that opportunity a little
bit similar one of the coolest Parts
about Bitcoin dite to me having you know
spent a lot of time in the eth ecosystem
is in uh in E defi there is a shared
security primitive that is uh smart
contracts every protocol is pretty much
built the same way um the the only
Nuance I guess is like there's a little
bit of trust assumptions around you know
oh is a smart contract upgradable or is
there some multi watching over it but
let's set that aside for now in Bitcoin
you expose the full spectrum of trust
assumptions because there are no smart
contracts there's no sort of like one
foundational security primitive that
everybody builds upon everybody has to
recreate their own from scratch so
there's this whole meme around uh you
know Bitcoin l2s there's like a million
of them uh in fact everything just about
everything built on bitcoin is
effectively a Bitcoin L2 um in a sense
that it has its own form of a security
primitive uh Lombard is building a
cosmoses K chain um that'll be out here
in a couple couple weeks Comet bft um
designed to allow us to scale a
validator set up to the point where
Lombard as a primitive can be
sufficiently decentralized until there
is some form of you know true
expressivity um within the Bitcoin base
layer what and back to kind of the
original question of like I guess how
how comfortable are Bitcoin holders with
you know relinquishing some degree of
control it's it's a tough conversation
but I think some it's something people
can get around this is this is part of
the reason I think I started with there
has to be enough of a catalyst to get
people excited at the end of the day
users are taking on some degree of risk
they're going to has to be compensated
for that in some form so if there is no
yield to be had then it's just not
really worth my time to even you know
take on this risk however uh if there is
enough yield then it you know starts to
be something you can get comfortable
around um very I mean this is like
exactly what I think happened with Igan
a lot of people had e sitting on the
sidelines not doing anything then it all
went into lsts and lrts the second there
was a enough of incentive so you know
what I will say about Bitcoin defi also
is like going back to that idea of we
now have exposed the full trust
backround I think part of the challenge
with Bitcoin defi is that um I you know
I said that as a positive and it's both
a positive and a negative depending on
what kind of Builders you get in the
ecosystem you get people building pretty
ridiculous protocols you know um zero
transparency on how the Bitcoin secured
uh or or worse it's they're not telling
you and it's a two or three multi-
saying like you get you get the full
spectrum in good and bad ways and I
think Lombard's goal from the start has
been to come out here and be this
Security First Blue Chip esque primitive
where we are setting the standard for
what security looks like in the Bitcoin
space uh you know the eth ecosystem has
spent five years figuring out how this
stuff has worked when you do something
bad in the eth ecosystem like actually
this is a great example uh coinbase um
launches uh CBBC as a um as a new Prim
within I can't remember if they launched
it first on b or ethereum main either
way um when they do that they launched
it without proof of reserves and the
community there was a huge uproar
everyone was like are you serious who
would do this in their right minds and
you might have heard you might have seen
that the Bitcoin defi Community was
pretty damn quiet while that was
happening and I'll tell you why Lumbard
as a Bitcoin LST right now there are
like you know seven or eight we the only
ones with a proof of reserves life and
we've had it since day one this is
absurd it's like either you don't want
to prove your reserve so you can't prove
it or or you're just taking security
like it's you know security and
transparency like it's a joke these
people like these groups would get eaten
alive in the E ecosystem so it's it's
it's one of those things where it's like
there's a lot of maturity that has to
happen and is happening throughout this
cycle I think of Bitcoin defi that um
you know in future Cycles we won't have
to worry about uh it's still it's like
we're I think Bitcoin defi is relearning
all the the uh you know relearning all
the lessons that defi had to learn over
the past few years I feel like Bitcoin
just has this this Monumental hurdle to
overcome because we were told and the
vision that we bought into is that this
is digital gold it is the thing that
will survive against inflation this will
last longer than the dollar and so the
mindset going into Bitcoin is I'm
accumulating as much as I can and it's
my life raft it's it's what's going to
save me when the dollar collapses so it
feels like there's a big title shift um
of information that we have to go
against before people can kind of
understand a little bit better about how
yes they can huddle onto this asset but
they can also deploy it on these other
networks and there's also still a little
bit of um you know shitcoin is still a
term there's still a lot of people that
are negative towards the icos towards
tokenization towards Defi and it's just
it was antithesis of what Bitcoin was as
a narrative so it feels like that's
still kind of like a hill that a lot of
Bitcoin hodlers need to overcome when
they can view Lumbard as something that
can enhance what they already have
something that I thought was curious
that I would love to hear a little bit
more about you mentioned that you're
building your own bft chain so what's
going to be the purpose of this is it
going to be for um like composability is
it going to be for uh third parties to
kind of like build on top of so they can
create their own security assumptions on
top of what you've already built I'd
love to just hear a little bit more
definitely and and I'll tie this into a
thing you were just saying which is like
you know there is so you make a good
point there's so much gravity behind
this asset it's like the answer you know
this is my my Bitcoin is like what I
hold on to in case the world collapses
you know um the idea of trying to gamble
for a couple percent yield um give you
know giving away control of that would
be would be kind of crazy like it's just
sort of not worth it so either the yield
has to be super high or you have to
create the right the right trust
assumptions what's interesting about
Bitcoin is
if you if you think back to like what I
was saying about the eth ecosystem
there's this shared primitive that
everybody's kind of comfortable with and
it's like a lot of people like the eth
community kind of knows each other a
little bit it's like uh I know there's
kind of a multi with upgradeability but
I kind of trust those guys in the
Bitcoin Community by default no one
trusts each other you know so it's like
LPS don't trust me I don't want to trust
the LPS and so I actually think that
there's a much greater thesis for True
non-custodial Tech within within the
Bitcoin community in a sense that um
right now the honest truth behind most
uh Bitcoin lsts or most infrastructure
built on bitcoin is that you're kind of
just trusting this core team a little
bit right like in the in the Bitcoin NS
te space for example uh I think maybe
all but Lumbard are just built upon
centralized custodians and what that
means is there's like some team who's
got a couple signers in the background
uh you know in this case probably like
three who are clicking buttons I mean
this is an operational robustness that's
a little bit scary you know so Lombard's
from the beginning is like we one we
don't want to be building that kind of
thing like that you know how much
pressure that is on a team to be able to
like operate efficiently but two it's
like users are going to demand um true
decentralization I know like if if you
can build non custodio Tech on a long
enough time frame um it's not going to
work out maybe the sort of team multisig
or like utilizing a centralized
custodian works for um 100 or 200200
million or something like that some
smaller amount even though that's still
a large amount um it's not going to work
for 10 billion you know and so that's
like where has been at from day one the
only way right now um to secure 10
billion hundred billion doll is to
create a sort of Consortium who can
collectively secure the assets this is
why this is why we're building um this
sort of Cosmos SD K we're calling it uh
Lombard Ledger we haven't officially
announced it here but there's there's a
little alph and and the idea here is
basically like you can already think of
Lombard as this mini blockchain where
there's this group of participants who
is um who has certain things they can
and cannot do but their core function is
that they they notorized deposits hey
that Bitcoin has been received by the
Lombard protocol and they um they enable
minting so once that bitcoin's been
received then I can allow for minting on
another chain so it's like Lombard is
this bridge and so you know the way
we're thinking about this is like we're
going to have some of the biggest mining
pools in the world some of the big
biggest exchanges some of the biggest um
defi protocols all sort of operating
nodes in this Consortium you can think
of the lbtc as this Universal Bitcoin
primitive um that uh where Lombard is
sort of collectively we're sort of
unifying the ecosystem around um around
one primitive that everybody's sort of
working together to secure that's the
vision for for this Consortium so you're
kind of right in that Lombard is both a
liquidity primitive in lptc this token
that floats around with an ecosystems
and a security primitive which is the
the sort of Ledger that um that secures
it right now we're just keeping it you
know we're sort of narly focused on
building it as a primitive um for uh uh
for for Lombard's lbtc but you know who
knows it's possible we could open it up
in the future why' you guys choose a bft
chain is it because of finality so we
needed bft so we actually initially
launched with um with raft consensus a
sort of um permission form of consensus
which made sense because it was
permission validator set anyway however
even even in the case of a permission
validator set there's there's benefits
to having uh the robustness of like bft
so in this case you know nodes can go on
and offline um with without you know um
having to restart the network and
whatnot so it's we needed to move that
direction just for operational
robustness but um we also uh I mean
probably the still the easiest way to
build a blockchain right now um is is
with Cosmos SDK I think and then um in
order to utilize babyon security so
Lombard will become one of the first
chains secured um by Babylon uh you need
to be IBC compatible or there's actually
a couple different ways they're building
it but um I think this is the primary
way this works out and and maybe maybe
the last thing is that it ends up just
being uh like a great um piece of
infrastructure for everything we're
trying to do Lombard is kind of this L2
this bridge that allows people to
connect from you know one ecosystem that
traditionally has been walled off to the
rest of the world um in crypto so
there's there's a lot of stuff I mean
you hinted at it a little bit but
there's a lot of things I think we could
do with this kind of Bas layer and so I
guess for somebody who's just finally
coming around after listening to you
speak to like fine I'll let go not let
go of my Bitcoin but I'll play it I'll
put it to work how can they be assured
of the security of the protocol that's
securing their Bitcoin for them and what
does the process look like when they've
gone out they've created lbtc they've
deployed it to D5 protocols it's been a
year or two and they're like okay I just
want to self- custody Cold Storage my
Bitcoin again what's the process like
for them to redeem the lbtc and then get
the Bitcoin back into their wallet yeah
y good questions so the goal for Lombard
in building a non-custodial liquid
staking protocol is to think of this
exactly the same way people would think
about like the Unis swap V3 or AA smart
contracts it's like it's not it's like
can't be evil that's that's the design
Spectrum we're going for and so you know
the way we've kind of structed this to
begin is two layers a um a Consortium of
trusted parties so this is this is like
a permission validator set we're
basically trying to structure this with
the biggest institutions um in crypto
such that it's like you know you do have
to rely on this honest majority
assumption but it's like man if uh I
don't know 11 out of these 21 validators
rug then crypto is going to have much
bigger problems kind of thing so that
that's sort of the design there and then
we also have this um this sort of Bas
layer that's built upon cubis which is a
key management system which has very
robust you can almost think of this as
like an offchain smart contract this has
very robust policies and guarantees
giving different participants within the
system a very narrow set of actions that
they can take you know so in this case
it's like even if the Consortium wanted
to rug off the assets they couldn't do
it you know and if if you know Lombard
wanted to do something or or another
party within the system need to do it
there's like certain checks and balances
to to avoid any any single actor you
know from from doing something um
certainly we have room to grow on this
um I think and you know this is part of
the reason we're upgrading to the
Lombard Ledger and we'll continue to
sort of decentralize the system over
time uh I can at least say that this is
Leaps and Bounds better than what the
market Standard is today and I hope that
you know Lombard continues to kind of
push this um further over time uh and
you know I think we're always open to
feedback you know it's it's one of those
things where it is it is a balancing act
between getting to Market quickly and
shipping a product that's usable and um
you know creating something that can
last uh a hundred years you know so I
think the vision for us the the sort of
um ideals which Lombard is founded upon
is always about building that hyper
structure something that's going to last
you know forever but in the meantime you
know I think there's a lot a lot we have
to build to what I will say is that like
uh you know sort of um uh co-founder at
Lumbard of mine uh is one of the leading
researchers on bit VM so if there's
anybody who's closer to real like truly
non-custodial Tech being built um on
bitcoin it's him and you know long story
short I I think we're we're not quite
ready for it um so when that's ready you
can bet Lombard will be um a big player
so and I don't mean to to be adversarial
or get you in a gotcha moment but yeah
um the thing with ethereum is when you
create a smart contract it lives forever
on chain and So based off of everything
you were just saying You're Building to
this place where Lombard's protocols and
tools will be able to survive without
like a Lumbard leadership but like are
you guys there yet is there kind of like
uh we need to get to uh this point for
the things that we're building to be
able to live in perpetuity do you kind
of have that like end goal in mind a
time frame or are you still just kind of
like building all the building blocks
yeah definitely no it's it's a good it's
a good and fair question uh Lombard's
not there yet but we're getting there
you know I think we're make I think
we're doing about the best we can in in
short of uh expressivity at at Bitcoin
right so my my real belief is that
within the next two to three years or
let's let's say within the next five
years just to be safe Bitcoin is going
to either um either either bit VM is
going to have matured to a state where
it actually becomes useful bit VM being
this sort of like um optimistic uh
verification of a stark directly on a
Bitcoin L1 which basically lets you
create uh a non-custodial L2 so you can
think of this on par with like the
security of arbitrum or base or
something like that if you could do that
Lombard will be that yeah you know so I
think we're waiting for that to mature
um another another route is is this sort
of opcat movement which would allow you
to do similar things so I think within
the next 5 years almost certainly
there's going to be a way for us to to
do away with this sort of tech that
we've built basically what I sort of
think is that we're building this bridge
you know in the meantime if we want
Lumbard to scale to 10 or hundred
billion dollars how can I ensure that I
at least have security for the next five
years or something like that is this
going to be nation state tamperproof not
not quite right um um but I think we'll
get to the point where you know other
Tech Will mature and allow us to upgrade
the system yeah you bring up a great
point and it's kind of fascinating that
as a Bitcoin Builder you have to be able
to implement either a bit VM solution or
an offcat solution yeah so are you guys
just kind of nimble and and willing to
move in whatever the direction that that
ends up becoming the thing is yeah
absolutely I mean I think our goal is to
just you know have our head as deep into
the research as we can to make sure we
see what's coming and I think Lombard's
in a privileged position right now in
that we have had a lot of early traction
I think um you know it's easy to get
really excited about new new ideas and
opportunities when your attaction too
was early like when we were I don't know
when we had a couple million dollars in
tvl I think we were all thinking like
man should we start you know should we
start building BDM now should we kind of
do some we you a billion dollars in tvl
it's it's a little bit uh scarier to
kind of be that guinea pig in a lot of
ways so I think we're just waiting to
see you know what what kind of works out
what I can at least say is that uh
Lombard users would prefer uh a a
trustless fully non-custodial protocol
even even like a Consortium they would
prefer to not have to trust that if if
something was available but I can at
least tell you that uh it's it's not um
the Tech's not mature enough yet for us
to be able to build on that reliably
totally and if we're we're kind of
zooming out we're getting to the top of
our hour but you guys have been able to
um accumulate approximately 177,000
users we're we're recording at the end
of November 2024 and almost 11,000 lbtc
minted so what has how have you guys
gone about finding these users how have
you guys built a network of of trusted
uh people of people who trust you guys
and and want to participate in what
Lombard's offering yeah it's a great
question so it started with building in
the right Market people were excited
about putting their Bitcoin to work uh
people excited about staking into
Babylon so I think we we caught that
wave initially and I think you know like
I've said before liquid staking is just
a great product it's fundamentally
better form of staking it enables you
know we partnered with a lot of great D5
protocols to sort of um offer up these
yield opportunities in addition to what
is already a great opportunity staking
to Babylon great staking into Babylon
and staking into Pendle Moro gearbox all
of these awesome dite protocols even
better and you know I think we benefited
from a lot of user education that the
Igan ecosystem did where to the point
where you know users were pretty
familiar with the flow granted it was
was a different asset that I think they
had to get comfortable around but uh
once they sort of picked up how Babylon
worked in kind of Lombard's positioning
it was a super super simple pitch you
know um so I mean I I think that was
kind of the story of it I'd say our user
base is a mix of uh call it like retail
or had this concept of proail kind of
sophisticated um whales effectively who
are not like running an Institutional
fund it's a mix of like large
institutions Crypt native Venture funds
um and liquid funds I would say you know
when we first went out to Market I think
we were originally talking to a lot of
like Bitcoin Maxis really big miners
Bitcoin whales to be honest the people
who have moved the fastest for us and
got the most involved in our ecosystem
in ways that are is valuable to the
long-term um health of Lombard has
actually been what I would describe as
like ecosystem players who also just
happen to hold a big stack of Bitcoin
this goes back to original conversation
like at the end of the day we're all
we're all Bitcoin guys you know we might
play in other ecosystems but everybody's
kind of on board with the thesis of
Bitcoin um my in in a lot of ways I
almost feel like you know Lumbard
sometimes stays a little bit you know
when when we're originally going out we
were focusing a little bit too much on
the Bitcoin community and really we
should have just been focusing on the
defi community and you know the the
crypto Community broadly and so I think
we've had a lot of movement from those
types of folks and so it's like it's a
little bit of this game of where you're
trying to map out the whole Bitcoin
ecosystem of like okay here are the
Bitcoin Maxis here are the eth Maxis who
hold Bitcoin what's the lowest hanging
fruit to onboard some people start to
build some trust in this primitive and
then you know you can these
conversations will will um you know
evolve over time and I think that's
exactly how it's been uh Babylon cap 1
uh you know we had we heard no from a
lot of people who then deposited into
Lombard for Babylon cap 2 so uh the name
of the game is kind of uh survive and
Advance a little bit continue to grow
the protocol and build trust over time
and um it's not going to happen on a you
know we've only been around for like six
months so it's been a pretty crazy time
but um there's a lot of people I think
we're talking to now that we probably
won't be able to close for another 12
months or so and that's perfectly fine
cool so my kind of final question is
going to circle back to something we
spoke about earlier and maybe you can
just give a sense of the insights that
you've been able to Garner from the
conversations you've had with with
partners and maybe with other folks at
the VC or even institutional level yeah
when we start when we talk about Bitcoin
yield there's the very sailor esque
lending to a bank um kind of perspective
and so I'm just curious uh on your
website it says you're collaborating
with Franklin Templeton they're one of
the largest um global leaders in Asset
Management with approximately $1.5
trillion do of assets under management
so yeah uh maybe without going into
Super you know minutia of detail can you
just share your perspective on what have
your relationships and what have your
conversations been with these types of
large scale um uh Asset Management
entities are they starting to grasp what
Lombard is offering and what
non-custodial liquid staking Solutions
might offer or are the conversations
still kind of early days and you're
still talking about providing custodial
Solutions just for them yeah exactly um
Franklin Templeton one of our earliest
investors the guys over there are great
institutions like Franklin templon vanck
the black rocks they they get it now I
don't have to tell them I I don't have
to like give them the pitch on crypto
and then and then like smart contract
forms and then liquid staking like they
they get the flow of things at this
point um which is part of the reason
they've been successful investors and um
even successful Builders right now you
have a lot of um real world assets um
from all those entities being issued on
chain so it's only a matter of time for
us before they get comfortable deploying
big money I mean part of the reason that
you know guys like Franklin Templeton uh
and some of those other funds I just or
um groups I just mentioned were some of
the first people we called was because I
mean those are some of the Bigg
uh crypto holders and asset managers in
the world um the name of the game is how
do I get those on board you know I think
sometimes defi gets a little bit caught
up well it's it's a mix of things
up in the retail game of like what's
going to happen in the next three to six
months um for for good good reason you
know there's truth in that you know
you've got to stay alive you got to kind
of keep building momentum but uh longer
term the name of the game is how do you
onboard the biggest players in the space
and we've been focused on building that
kind of infrastructure or at least
beginning to build the company with the
principles that would ultimately be able
to onboard those those types of groups
so you know with with those guys it's um
those are probably more in the groups uh
I was discussing who who who may take a
little bit longer to be able to you know
get fully onboarded to Lombard um but
you know it's it's um I will say I've
been pleasantly surprised at how much
institutions of crypto are willing to
dip their feet in you know they're not
it's not like uh obviously I'd love it
if some of these big Bitcoin ATF
providers would start staking their
Bitcoin through Lombard I know that's
not going to happen just yet but at
least taking the first step just to like
put some you know get some skin in the
game start to understand how the
protocol Works um this I mean I think
this has been huge and maybe I mean this
this to me was one of the defining parts
of uh battle like the early battle on
days before they launched it was so
obvious I think that they were going to
be a massive player because you had
every big mining pool running a proof of
stake validator on the test night test
net you had like uh I think three of the
biggest bit coin asset managers in the
world running um nodes on testnet so it
was like the Bitcoin Community I mean
the big Bitcoin holders had already kind
of said we're interested in this thing
let's see what happens Franklin
Templeton a major investor and you know
a lot of the Bitcoin I mean they've been
a huge investor in the Bitcoin defi
ecosystem and a supporter of everything
that we've been doing that you know
bitler has been doing on that Hab that
you have I mean it's it's it's only a
matter of time before these guys keep
moving and like I was like we were
talking about a little bit um back it's
kind of it's funny you know in in you
know the first cycle you're in there are
things that are hard to imagine that
always happen in the next cycle you know
so it might only be it might be like
late this cycle or late next cycle that
we start to see you know crazy
institutional adoption but um without a
doubt it's coming you mentioned uh big
the big guys getting into staking and I
think we still need to see a little bit
of regulatory and maybe then some
legislative Clarity on that but very
true here's the hoping for some positive
uh results here in the US in the coming
two to four years
we won we won't speculate on that though
um so Jacob if anyone who listening to
this is really psyched who do you want
to speak with and what's the best way
they can reach out to you yeah I'm I'm
interested to speak to a little bit of
any everybody uh Bitcoin holders active
defi users anybody building a def5
protocol um I'm always I'm always pretty
open I feel like I learned a lot in the
space by just pinging random people and
hopping on conversations with uh people
I I probably didn't have business
talking to uh so I'm I'm always up to
chat with people so you can find me on
Twitter or I don't know um DM me on on
telegram or LinkedIn or whatever
whatever fler boat I'm pretty active
wherever fantastic well Jacob thank you
so much for your time today it was
fantastic to talk about Lumbard about
the amazing things that you guys are
doing with non-custodial liquid saking
solutions yeah um I really can't wait to
to keep my ears to the ground and keep
following what you guys are doing so
keep up the good work awesome well
thanks tonan I appreciate it cheers
thank you for tuning in to the smart
economy podcast to stay in the loop with
all our latest episodes and insights
head over to www.s smartecom podcast.com
and don't forget to subscribe on our
YouTube channel for all of our video
content if you enjoyed today's
discussion please consider showing your
support by liking commenting and
reviewing this episode on your favorite
podcasting platform your feedback really
helps us reach more listeners and brings
you even better content your way we'd
also love to hear from you so please
drop a comment on Spotify or on YouTube
to share what topics you'd like us to
cover next or who you'd like to see as
an upcoming guest and if you or someone
you know would make a great guest please
don't hesitate to reach out we're always
looking for fresh voices and New
Perspectives and for Neo token holders
please consider voting for Neo news
today as your Council representative
we've probably been supporting the Neo
Eco System since 2017 and we'll continue
to do so by putting portions of our
Council rewards directly back into
ecosystem growth initiatives so thank
you so much again for listening to the
smart economy podcast and we cannot wait
to catch up with you next time
[Applause]